So now do we added storing fetching updating and deleting and therefore all the crud functionalities.
And we had a look at showing a loading spinner and handling errors.
There are two things missing.
One is that when we actually place the order that we do send that order to a server too and that we
stored the order there as well and not just locally.
Because right now of course when you order something we see it here but as soon as we reload the app
since we're not storing it on a server server that is lost.
So that's one thing.
The other thing is of course that we only show a loading spinner here.
And we also only handle errors here on the admin screen if something goes wrong.
We get no error all here if we added this and we submit this.
We see no loading spinner whilst we're waiting for this to be submitted.
So that's all something we could improve.
And that's actually the part I want to start with.
So here on the added product screen when we dispatch updating or creating in both cases does of course
takes a while and indeed we get back a promise here because both in the update and create product action
we're using the redux func feature of returning an async dispatch function here which they offer returns
a promise which they offer is returned as part of our dispatch function call here.
So Dan for we actually get the information whenever we're waiting for the response whether we got an
error or whether we're done.
We just need to use it.
And of course we can use it in a similar way we did before with you with state imported from react and
then by managing the loading and the error state here side note you could of course all the work with
a reducer where you merge both states together if you wanted to with the help of the user the user hook
here.
However I'll stick to is loading and set is loading and initially of course this is false and also have
the error and set error variables here with using state like this which initially is undefined.
And now we just need to set this as we're dispatching actions or as we're getting errors.
So here when we're about to dispatch this no matter if we're editing or if we're creating I want to
set is loading to true and I also want to set my error here to false or not to false to null reset it.
Now once we're done I want to do something else but for that we first of all need to wait for dispatching
to be finished.
Now we can therefore turn this into async function again just so that I can use to await key word in
there.
The alternative would be to not turn this into using function and simply add then and catch thereafter
that would work as well.
But I like to use async await so now we can await for both this patches to finish of course only one
of the two will run because that's an if condition but we can wait for that to finish and therefore
after it is a block we know Dad will be done dispatching.
So here we can set is loading back to false that's the loading state now to handle errors we just need
to wrap this with a try catch block and we can actually wrap the entire if block here with try catch
so let's grab that move it in here and then catch any potential errors we might be getting here and
now here I'll of course want to set my error or 2D error I'm getting here or to the error message I'm
getting here
now we're setting the error we're setting the loading state of course this has no effect here on this
screen so to show a loading spinner we need to import the activity indicator from react native activity
indicator from react native and to show an error.
I also want to throw an alert and for Dad you need to make sure that you're importing the alert which
we're already doing now as a next step to handle the floating state may be down there before I return
my form I will return at will I will check if is loading is true and if it is I will return my view
a year with the activity indicator in there and they are all set to size size too large and set to color
two colors and for Danny to you need to make sure that you import that color is constant primary so
make sure you have that colors constant imported here that's required and now I will also use to started
here to add a new style this center to style to be precise here I will add centered and yes we could
differ also outsource this into a separate wrapping component if you wish to.
They are all set flex to one justify content to center and also align items to center like this.
Now we can apply this center at style here to the view which I wrap around my activity indicator by
setting the style here two styles stud centered.
Now we should be seeing this was for a loading and on a side note we also now shouldn't navigate back
before we're done.
So if I add or if I remove that exclamation mark and then leave that input so that this is submitted
then I click save.
You saw the loading spinner and we only navigate back after this is done.
Now firebase is super fast but still that is what happened.
Now to simulate an error I'll go to the products actions and there in update product down here I will
remove that ass here again to force an error and I will also add something else.
I will now stored a response here and a constant because now I actually do care.
I want to make sure that if the response is not OK.
So if we have a 400 or 500 status code I also throw a new era where I say something went wrong or where
you do whatever error handling you want to do so that we all throw an error in that case by the way
I'll do the same for deleting before we test this forced error which I implemented.
So here for deleting I also want to check doesn't for data of course here.
I also need to get my response by awaiting to fetching here okay with that.
Let's see if that forced error for updating due to dismissing s here.
If dad has an effect if I now go back here to admin I start adding this I add an exclamation mark and
click this.
Now what you'll see is that the update is simply dismissed so we don't see the exclamation mark here.
But we also get no error message which makes sense because I have no logic to do that.
Now how can we handle this.
As I said I want to throw an alert and they offer.
I will use use effect so that use effect hook which react offers which we find here.
I want to use that and I can simply implement that here.
After initializing the reducer let's say exact position doesn't matter too much use effect here should
rerun whenever error changes.
So if we set this to be an error or to not be an error then here I'd check if error is true ish.
So if we have an error and if we do have this then I can throw an alert.
An error occurred.
I want to output my error here and that should be the error message because that's what I'm setting
here.
I'm setting my error to message so that should be a string which could which I can output and then I'll
add a button where I say OK which simply dismisses this now all is important if we get an error.
I don't want to navigate away so to a white that this happens I want to make sure that here does props
does navigation here actually only is performed if we well don't end up in this catch block.
So basically here after the if else blocked but still in the try block dear I want to navigate away.
So now let's give us another try.
Let's go back here.
Editors add exclamation mark please somewhere else click save.
And now I get my error message here and I stay on this page and it's all the reset I can add does again
click here and it's gone.
On the other hand if we now fix that error here in the actions by re adding that s here and we now go
back and have a number look at this.
I added this add my estimation market click somewhere else and click save.
Now that all works as it should.
So now this really works and now just behaves in the way it should behave.
Now you can of course also add a loading spinner and an error handler here to the user product screen
if you want to.
So if you delete this which I won't do here but if you would delete this you would currently not get
a spinner a loading spinner.
You also won't get an error if it fails to save some time and not implement this year but you could
implement it in basically the exact same way we did before if you wanted to.
So that's something you can definitely also do.